---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline:  "University of Surrey"
title:  "Electronic Instrumentation 2 - ENG2090"
# teaser: "Feeling Responsive allows you to use all kinds of headers. This example shows <em>no</em> header at all. Just the navigation."
categories:
    - teaching
tags:
    - module_ug_current
header: no
---

----

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Module Overview

This module serves to provide knowledge and experience on the use of analogue and digital systems for the measurement and control of electronic systems with applications to both mechanical and medical engineering.

## Module Aims

- A systematic understanding and critical awareness of the importance of instrumentation.
- A comprehensive understanding of the electronics associated with the use of instrumentation.
- A knowledge of basic amplification and filtering circuits.
- A comprehensive understanding of the importance of noise and their sources.
- A knowledge of analogue to digital and digital to analogue conversion and a comprehensive understanding of their need.
- A basic understanding of microprocessors and microcontrollers.
- An introduction to programming microprocessors in C.
- Some practical experience of implementing an instrumentation system.

## Learning outcomes

<table style="width:100%">
<colgroup>
    <col span="1" style="width: 10%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 60%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 10%;">
    <col span="1" style="width: 20%;">
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr>
    <th>Ref</th>
    <th colspan="3">Attributes Developed <a href="#footnote-1">[1]</a></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
    <td>001</td>
    <td>Define the terms describing the use of instrumentation</td>
    <td>K</td>
    <td>C12</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>002</td>
    <td>Describe basic analogue and digital systems including bridge circuits, logic gates and amplifiers and Design simple amplification circuits</td>
    <td>K</td>
    <td>C13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>003</td>
    <td>Identify sources of noise in electronic systems and propose remedial action</td>
    <td>KCP</td>
    <td>C1</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>004</td>
    <td>Specify sampling rates and resolution for data acquisition systems</td>
    <td>C</td>
    <td>C13</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>005</td>
    <td>Write basic programs in a variant of the C programming language and programme a microcontroller, which will measure a dynamically changing physical quantity</td>
    <td>KT</td>
    <td>C3</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>006</td>
    <td>Analyse the performance of an instrumentation system</td>
    <td>KP</td>
    <td>C2, C12</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<p id="footnote-1">[1] Attributes Developed: C - Cognitive/analytical; K - Subject knowledge; T - Transferable skills; P - Professional/Practical skills</p>


## Assessment Strategy

- Online Examination (Learning outcomes 1-6)
- Coursework: lab report (Learning outcomes 5, 6)

## Reading List

- Horowitz P, Hill W, Robinson I. *The art of electronics*. Cambridge: Cambridge university press; 1989 Jul 28.
- Bolton W. *Mechatronics: electronic control systems in mechanical and electrical engineering*. Pearson Education; 2003.

